It was dripping this syrup like, like service custody is liquid.
It was everywhere, all down everywhere when we went down there because there was plants and everything.
It was, it was weird.
It was a purplish green color and you could tell it was like, it was just weird.
It was, it's hard to explain it kind of like, like, like it was like it seemed to just like be alive.
I mean, it was almost like, if you're looking like something organic, I don't know, I couldn't tell.
It didn't look like anything we would make, like machine parts or anything.
It looked like it was sculpted.
These were these large vents.
They looked like they went into the craft, but I couldn't tell.
But it, I mean, it was a shadow.
That was the only thing that really cast a shadow.
The rest of this, well, it was another thing was these vents cast to the shadow where you could see where there wasn't light.
But the sun was shining right on the object and it didn't cast a shadow.
Not on anything.
It was like kind of like absorbing the light.
It was weird, strange.
There was no reflection or anything like that, you know.
Is there anything positive at all that you've got now?
Yeah, I'm still alive.
Yeah, they threw me into the mud and all that liquid got my hair in my face.
Oh, they were like scientists, I suppose.
They had this typo, like we'd call it mop gear, right?
Mission-oriented protective posture.
And they had gas masks on and like rubber suits and they were coming around.
And you had all kinds of weird people there.
Some had some version of mop or personal protective posture on and personal protective gear.
And it was all different ones, different kinds.
Very few first-hand UFO witness encounters over the decades have matched the intrigue,
coherence, and respect as former US Marine Lance Corporal Jonathan Wagan.
Lance Corporal Wagan first told of his harrowing UFO crash retrieval encounter during official
service in US Operation Laser Strike in the Peruvian jungle through Stephen Greer in the year 2000.
As a young perimeter security marine tasked to investigate a downed aircraft thought to be a
South American drug smuggling plane or friendly US vehicle, the Lance Corporal claimed to have
stumbled upon a crashed, egg-shaped UFO and subsequent Department of Energy retrieval team
that in my opinion gives us one of the greatest possible instances of insight into how US government
rapid reaction UFO recovery teams operate.
Since his original testimony, Wagan has publicly discussed his encounter with a non-human craft,
an antagonistic DOE retrieval team only once more.
In 2023, Jonathan Wagan appeared on a podcast with Martin Willis,
re-addressing aspects of the Lance Corporal's incredible encounter but exploring little new
ground. Today, I am beyond excited to announce a true successor to Jonathan Wagan's 2000 testimony,
an in-person discussion where Jonathan and myself discuss why he went public,
new details of the UFO crash retrieval encounter, adverse health effects and reprisals Jonathan has
faced and so much more. Before this discussion, I thought it pertinent to take a step back and
cover Wagan's testimony in painstaking details. After all, I have covered this case before in
one of my first ever projects but barely even scratched the surface of this encounter.
So before I sit down with Wagan in the coming weeks, let's take a step back and analyze
every single detail of this 1997 encounter, from piecing together the origins and deployment of
the DOE recovery team to contacting other Marines allegedly involved with the case,
to determining where Wagan may have been taken and interrogated to analyzing specific similar
egg-shaped UFO crash retrievals. Let us leave no stone unturned analyzing one of the most
fascinating first-hand UFO crash retrieval cases in history.
Hey guys, it's UAPGurb and I am thrilled for you to join me today as we embark on a
comprehensive analysis of the claims of Lance Corporal Jonathan Wagan. As a precursor to my
in-person interview with Jonathan, I thought it pertinent to step back and critically analyze
the entirety of his testimony. This investigation will not seek to simply retell this incredible
UFO crash case but to unravel this case and gain insights into US UFO crash retrieval teams.
And before we get started a few things to point out, I would like to thank RGHUFOs and take OM
for their incredible 2023 work into Wagan's case. These excellent researchers arrived at many
of the same conclusions I did long before this project so please check out their work in the
video description. I'll also be pulling clips from Wagan's 2023 podcast with Martin Willis
and 2000 tape testimony with Steven Greer. And it is worthy to note, Greer chopped up Wagan's
original testimony, emitting certain details. These include Wagan describing what looked to be
a four-fingered arm hanging out of a recessed hall in the crashed UFO. Greer seemingly omitted
this from the 2000 testimony. Due to this, I will be pulling Wagan's recorded tapes off
of Steven Greer's DPI archive to try and capture Wagan's words uncut and in their purest form.
But these files are still chopped up and edited. I have found it impossible to get my hands on
the full unedited tape but this is the closest we can get. Due to these rough files, audio quality
is significantly worse than the published interview but I still find it important to
publish Wagan's words without edits. These source files contain many additional details,
time spent with Wagan's military records and drawings, as well as questions asked by filmmaker
James Foxx that were curiously cut out of the 2000 published interview.
This one was the one that was half open and you could see into it but I mean it was just
black as like looking into a closet. Alongside the 2000 tape, I have found and will be often
referencing Jonathan's outreach to Greer's team from August 2000, just two months before his tape
testimony. And of course it goes without saying, I will often be pulling my own clips from my time
spent with Jonathan Wagan. With all that being said, let's start our investigation and first
travel back all the way to 1997 to relive the experience of Lance Corporal Wagan.
And basically I was there and then I was transferred over to the section for laser
strike in February of 1997. As a young man, Jonathan Wagan joined the Marine Corps in 1995
until 1998. After a back injury suffered in training, Jonathan's service led him to the
second low-altitude air defense battalion within the Marine Corps Air Control Group 28 stationed
at Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point. During this time, Wagan served as a low-altitude air
defense gunner with training on Stinger man portable air defense systems, man pads, and
Avenger surface-to-air missiles, SAM platforms. In 1997, Wagan and the USMC MACG-28 were deployed
to Bukalpa, Peru to support Operation Laser Strike specifically to operate as perimeter
security for mission radar installations and to replace aging hawk missile batteries with Stinger
and Avenger missile platforms. Laser Strike was one of numerous US worldwide classified
operations under US Southcom or US Southern Command to counter narcotics traffic in Peru.
The operation included up to 20 US agencies including the USMC, Drug Enforcement Agency,
Air Force, CIA, National Guard, and US Army Special Forces, as well as local Peruvian forces such as
Peruvian Air Force or FAP. Laser Strike served to conduct three phases of counter drug operations
including illegal use of airspace, alternate transportation modes, and production capabilities.
Laser Strike employed several acknowledged data acquisition and radar systems to accomplish its
including TPS-43 and relocatable over-the-horizon radar systems, or RothR, and possibly covertly
utilize satellites from the Defense Support Program. In 1996, Laser Strike proceeded Operation
Green Clover, a similar US Southcom operation to combat narcotics transfer in Peru and Colombia
but much smaller in scale. In the 12 month period from April 1996 to April 97, within the timeline
of Jonathan's encounter, air and ground-based radar used by Laser Strike tracked 45,000 total
aircraft. 5,390 of these were quote-unquote tracks of interest. Only 150 of these were
suspected of drug trafficking but only 21 such planes were forced or shot down. However,
the exact number of shoot-downs was classified. Three primary locations satisfied this mission
conducted in Peru, Puculpa, Andoas, and Iquitos, whose mission was to track, identify, and ground
by warning or force drug trafficking aircraft entering or leaving Peruvian airspace. In support
of Laser Strike and counter drug operations, US Special Forces were additionally sent to Iquitos
Peru to the Mar Forlant Riverine Training Team to train with Peruvian military forces.
US Southcom authorized up to 14 Special Forces deployments to the region during 1997,
and one major Special Forces group that aided in South American counter drug operations attached
to US Southcom was the US Army 7th Special Forces Group, aka the US Army Green Berets,
out of Fort Bragg, North Carolina. Historically, the 7th Special Forces out of SOCOM or Special
Operations Command within the 1st Special Forces Command had previously been deployed in Operation
SNOCAP, a drug enforcement agency counter narcotics operation in 9 Latin American countries alongside
the US Navy SEALs. The Army 7th Special Forces Group has conducted foreign internal defense,
counter drug, and training missions in Central and South America. The 7th specializes in
unconventional warfare and direct action, special reconnaissance, counter proliferation of WMD,
or warheads of mass destruction, and security force assistance.
Why all this discussion of Green Berets and Special Operations Command units attached to
Laser Strike? Recall how quite often I discuss the involvement of Special Operations Command,
or their elite component command, JSOC, Joint Special Operations Command in UFO crash retrieval
operations. Well, this will all become apparent quite soon when discussing Wagan's retrieval
encounter. Up to his involvement in Laser Strike, Jonathan had no interest in the subject of UFOs,
but his worldview was somewhat shaken during his guard station performing perimeter security at
his Laser Strike radar installation. Wagan would state in the command center of the radar
installation he would overhear USAF personnel discussing aircraft tracked flying in and out
of the atmosphere at Mach 10 plus. I knew that these these aircraft were flying because I had been
in the command center there at the radar installation and I heard a couple women there in the Air Force
talking about aircraft flying in and out of the atmosphere at Mach 10 plus. So these aircraft
are flying around there, you know, they're re-entering the atmosphere or whatever they're
talking about. We got these aircraft flying again and the other girl says, yeah, you know,
they're coming in and out of the atmosphere. There's our stuff and so there's our aircraft,
and they're like, you know, I can't remember what she said. Wagan would even state an Air Force
Colonel would enter the command center about 30 minutes after this conversation and confiscate
logbooks tracking flight data. I'm not sure, but I think these logs did contain those tracks,
otherwise they wouldn't have taken them. And we're talking about, you know, there's hundreds,
thousands of aircraft flying through there, you know, weekly and all these logs, you know,
they're writing them in and, you know, and they're keeping their writing, you know, how many times
certain aircraft or they get certain vectors for aircraft that are supposed to be around it.
I mean, when you got, when you got objects that are re-entering the atmosphere and then stopping
on a dog and then turning around and going exactly the opposite direction, that's kind of strange.
Meteors don't do that. Oh, is this something that was rare or something that was happening?
Oh, this was happening all the time. There was like three or four incidents where I was duty there
that the same, the same Air Force officer came in there to give books.
And do you think these were tracked on to the freight arts? Yeah, these were tracked from this
particular radar that were logged in. The reason, I guess the reason they were taking them is they
didn't want people to know that they're tracking these aircraft. I guess, I mean, give us, I'm just
assuming that. One night while on guard duty at around 11 p.m. to midnight between April and March
1997, Wigant was approached by Staff Sergeant Monteligre, Sergeant Allen and Sergeant Adkins,
and told that there was a downed aircraft, possibly friendly, and that he and other Marines were
needed to secure the crash site. By three to four a.m., Jonathan, Adkins, and Allen were in the
vanguard of a group of Humvees among eight to 10 Marines sent to secure the crash area.
After a combination of driving and trekking through the jungle, the Marines reached the site around
six to seven a.m. And they, they came to us and said, look, you know, we got, we got a situation
where we, we have an aircraft crash that's possibly friendly and they need us to go and secure the
crash site and we're like fine. So this is early, this is late at night. I'm about 11 or 12 at night.
I was on guard duty that night. So I was already up and it was my shift. We have 12 hour shifts,
12 on, 12 off, and where we, where we rotate our section. So we all went out that night. We got up
I don't know, three or four in the morning and headed out in Humvees. We had about five or
six Hummers and we drove to where we needed to go. And then we, from there, you know, we had to
hump through the bush. So we got there, I don't know, six, seven, just, just one daylight had just
just started to get light. And well, we found the area really easy because there was a, there was a
huge gash in the land where, where something had crashed. And it, it didn't break anything. You
know, you know, I don't know if you've ever been to a crash site where, you know, you had, you know,
had trees, you know, just broken like, like in half. Everything was burned. And it was like,
like if you had almost cut like a warm butter with a knife, I mean, it was just,
it's like, it's, it's like something on fire or had energy or some kind of energy and like a laser
almost had, had like gutted. I mean, it was really strange. And anyway, I was, I was in the front
with Sergeant Allen and Sergeant Ankins. We were up front. And we were, we were point basically.
And we were like, I don't know, 10, 20 meters and head of everyone else. We had, we all had
maps and radios and compasses. So we knew so we wouldn't get lost. And basically, we were the
first ones to see the object. And basically what happened is we didn't go straight up the hill.
Because basically this thing went up the hill and then off into the side of the ravine of the
ridge. This is about a 200 foot ridge, at least solid granite. I mean, it's rock. I don't know
if it's granite. It was buried in the side of the cliff. But anyway, we didn't go straight up. We went
to the, to the, to all to the left and walked up to the top of the ridge. And that's when we saw the
craft. But I mean, it had landed and cut its way through the jungle and embedded itself in the,
in like a, I don't know what you would call it almost like a saddle or one of these kind of
foothills. It's kind of a ridge and it went into the side of it. And I can't remember how far from
the initial impact that when it landed, it actually physically hit the deck and then went in. I don't
know how far down it was. Yeah, yeah, man. It burned itself like into the deck, you know, like a foot
or two. I don't know. It was deep. The terrified and confused Marines climbed down the ridge to get
closer to this object with Waygant getting the closest of all the Marines. Waygant Allen and
Adkins observed a huge ship embedded at a 45 degree angle into the rocky cliff face. This is the
craft. This is pretty crude two dimensional drawing. But this is jungle here. And this was the craft
and it was embedded in the rock like this. And I'm not sure if this tapered off or how it went.
But these right here are the hatches, these two objects here. This one was the one that was half
open. And you could see into it. But I mean, it was just black is like looking into a closet.
Damage I think from the missile. And these were these large vents, they look like they went into
the craft, but I couldn't tell. But I mean, it was a shadow. That was the only thing that really
cast a shadow. The rest of this was another thing was these vents cast to the shadow where you
could see where there wasn't light. But the sun was shining around on the object and it didn't
cast a shadow not on anything. It was like kind of like absorbing the light. It's weird. Strange.
There was no reflection or anything like that. The object was a massive metallic egg or teardrop
shape measuring 10 meters in height and 20 meters in length. Probably like three or four
standard 53 foot trailers wide and about three, like like one, two, three, four,
one, two, three, four. So about 16 of those together. So it was pretty big, man. It was
catastrophic damage likely leading to the crash of the vehicle was visible. No debris littered
the area, but Wageant observed an enormous gash in the rear of the craft. Jonathan guessed this
damage to be from Hawk MIM-23 missile batteries. Although Hawk systems were phased out of military
use in 1994, the USMC maintained usage until 2002. However, Wageant guessed the Hawk system used to
down the craft was used by the Peruvian Air Force. This being because the USMC phased out Hawk
missiles from laser strike in early 1997. Though he has no direct knowledge to this day,
Wageant after extensive studying of MIM-23 ballistics believes Hawk fragmentation missiles
caused the damage and downing of the craft. Yeah, well, what I think happened, I think a lot of
that fragmentation like went into the craft and like bounced around right after it got
headed as it was going down. So it probably didn't come out. But like I said, if the missile had hit
depending on what the craft was made of and depending on the speed of the missile and its
angle and all that, I think it probably would have penetrated and exploded and it would have
just disintegrated the ship totally. This then presents a unique question. How could a conventional
missile down a highly advanced non-human craft? Similar intriguing incidents like a quote-unquote
one in a million targeting of a teardrop shaped UFO by a naval destroyer in 1973 was discussed in
my last project on naval legacy programs. MIM-23 Hawk missiles are unique. Hawks are not only able
to utilize conventional missiles but also airburst rounds which exploded near not on a target to
damage enemy personnel or vehicles with devastating fragmentation. Perhaps a conventional missile
could never hit a moving UFO but perhaps in this case a hawk MIM-23 got just close enough to frag
and down a target. But let's get back to the wreckage. The best way Wigant could describe the
craft was metallic but organic almost as if it was alive. The object did not appear as if it was
made of machine parts but more sculpted. The craft was purplish green and fluctuating in color almost
like gasoline on water. This effect is known as the mother of pearl effect and the changing colors
would sometimes even make the craft near translucent. Well I thought at one point it
looked half like green and half purple and then it was kind of it was it was changing
the image of the not not the physical properties of it how it was was constructed or whatever
but that there was some kind of field on it and it was going like I said with Greer it was like
you know when you wash your car would you know fluid right with like palm olive or whatever
disc detergent and when it bubbles up it gives like the the color chemical rainbow it was like
that but all over the craft and it was kind of like moving around weird I can't so it wasn't
just no no it was it was kind of like moving around and going sometimes it would go like
completely like almost like silver right the disabled craft was dripping a liquid with the
viscosity of syrup this liquid had poured all over the surrounding foliage that hatch
that was a jar or busted open broke open that's where the liquid seemed to come from right
and it seemed to come out of there and it was everywhere man
it was clear well no the the the whatever that stuff was I don't know what to call it the fluid
it was clear like just you know water water clear the fluid was clear yeah but it was viscous like
yeah but it was thick like maple syrup a large sweeping light traveled around the circumference
of the vehicle that slowed until the vehicle seemingly powered off along with this sweeping
light wagan could hear the craft dimming until it went silent wagan described the sound as a
guitar amplifier there was there was one light on it that slowly went around and in the machine I
could hear it I can hear I guess because it was still functioning and had like a like a hum to it
like like a really bass like say if you unplugged an amp from a guitar that kind of you know it was
really really you know it's really deep but it was loud it was loud man it was like a deep
like that like you know rap it would be it would have been like several orders of magnitude louder
than you know the real deep bass rap boom boom boom right it was like boom it was like this but it
was more like a I don't know man I just can't describe it's not even like that man it's just
indescribable it was that light cycling it's almost sounded like a chemical sound man like a chemical
like watery kind of like sound man like you're it's weird and that light was slowing down right yeah
it finally stopped right everything like shut off this sound of a guitar amp is almost identical
to the testimony of former marine michael herera who described the same sound emanating from an
eight-gone alien reproduction vehicle as jonathan got closer to the craft he was able to make out more
surface detail such as the craft not being smooth but featuring what looked to be notches and bumps
50 to 100 yards away from the craft jonathan got the mysterious liquid all over what marines call
camis or battle dress uniform the liquid discolored his camis like acid and ate jonathan's skin
so you got within like 150 or 300 view of this right this thing was so high up on the cliff
phase you got some of this liquid on yeah yeah it was everywhere man and what did it do to you
what did it do to your clothes well i mean they took my clothes but my basic my hair on my legs
went away and it's never really come back i lost all my hair on my on my on my legs determined yet
frightened the young lance corporal maintained his gaze on this incredible ship the crashed vehicle
additionally featured large vents on the freestanding side wagant described similar to fish gills
though he could only see one side of the craft jonathan wagered these same gills he guessed
were used for propulsion were featured on the other side of the craft yeah on the part of it
looked like i don't know what it was but yeah it had sort of like these um under a really tight
kind of like ellipse that ran down the side like got small got got progressively smaller
and i only saw it like a couple freaking times because it was the weird i don't know what it was
the all i could say it was like some type of four shield i don't know what it was three seemingly
non-flush hatches sat near the top of the craft one of these hatches being half open although no
lights were visible from behind the hatch wagant did observe what appeared to be a four-fingered
arm hanging limply from the open hatch this element of wagant's testimony was seemingly cut from his
2000 interview with wagant confirming to me that it must have indeed been cut as he did inform
greer of this arm yeah one of the creatures was his arm and hand was hanging out he was hanging out
did it come out was it hanging out when you walked up to it or was it yeah he was hanging out probably
dying i don't know about the other pilot i don't know what they were to be honest with you but
i guess you could call them aliens or whatever i guess that would be yeah yeah right and uh one of
i think he was dying almost or close to death right from the crash but like i said this is
this is what i thought at the time i mean i don't know this detail is very interesting as i am
reminded of the 1965 keksburg pennsylvania crash retrieval encounter where multiple eyewitnesses
described biologics inside the bell shaped craft whose appendages were visible once a craft hatch
had opened and the vehicle was depressurized so you and two sergeants kind of who led the vanguard
got the closest to craft but you got the closest right i was the closest to it and the other two
sergeants were kind of standing a little bit off while you got right yeah and i ran up to it was
there anything weird about your guys's compasses comms yeah all that was all you know it wasn't
working so your compass was it just going haywire yeah it was spinning around around the same time
jonathan felt like a presence was reaching out to contact him you got a clear sense that there were
some kind of life forms yes it was life forms and the ship i and i could they were it's almost
like if someone was like reading your mind and that's the way it felt and i felt like i felt a
presence it's like supernatural you know but i felt this presence that it's real strange i guess it
was almost like i think the kree i told leslie is i thought the creatures were they called me and it
was like weird they were i think they were trying to communicate with me like i guess telepathically
it's really weird i don't believe in it and any of that stuff but anyway it was i could i could hear
like it was terrible because it kept going and then it still comes and goes it's like basically
sitting in your car and turning on like an am station that's not the you know it's just white
noise just turning on really high and that's what i heard when i when i first got in there and i
didn't ask any of the other guys that i was with if they heard that or anything jonathan was mesmerized
by this presence he felt the creatures were informing him that everything would be all right but
we're also requesting his help he was so spellbound he ignored the cries and cussings of sergeants
alan and adkins who stood away from the craft shouting at wey gantt not to get any closer
they were they were scared it was the apprehension the fear and then they they were not here at
home is that's really what what it felt like and i mean that's not that's not my own emotions
that was something that they were projecting towards me like if somebody would shadow like a
spotlight i mean that's what i felt they were directing their thoughts at me i mean this is not
i mean i didn't think about all this at the time but it's been the currencies were i've seen the
creatures of my in my thoughts and i've seen i saw them what they look like and they projected
and i didn't i didn't tell leon i didn't tell leslie this you know i was it was like you know it was
the grays basically and and i'm not just saying that but and i never really was into the ufo stuff
and i didn't read books on when i was a kid but basically the the oval that the the oval egg had
with big dark eyes big eyes our nose and small mouth new ears i think i've had you know dreams of them
i don't you know so but i didn't see them but they were not the small you know small kind of like
three or four foot right they were huge you said these were tall like eight to ten feet yeah they
were huge yeah what it what were their heads like like classic yeah classic but really like elongated
kind of coming up like this and they'd have been probably this big like a balloon yeah no
like the kind of like the more oblong shape not like the classic if you look at communion right
the wittly streber right but the artwork they have on there they would not have been fat like that
they were more skinnier but they were also like on a kind of a skinny heart they were
projecting that they weren't here they were here they were here they weren't here you know that they
weren't not going to harm me that was basically that everything is going to be all right just
help me get this helps get out of here i think do i don't i don't know how many were on the craft
yeah that's more than one yeah definitely more than one probably about four or five i don't
know just this not i mean not a water's number the communication from the occupants of the craft
as well as the appearance of the craft led jonathan to believe this vehicle was controlled
via thoughts with the massive discussion of psionics here in 2025 through the testimony of
jake barber and sky watchers this early mention of basically psionics in 2000 by wagant is extremely
interesting additionally i have discussed before dating all the way back to the 1950s stories and
testimonies of ufo's being controlled with consciousness headband transceivers are unique
control mechanisms to learn more about this subject i do recommend checking out my video on
the claims of colonel philip j corso after about 15 to 20 minutes at the site wagant and the other
marines embarked to climb back up the ridge to rendezvous with the rest of the mac g28 marines
when they were greeted by two to four army ch-47 helicopters flying overhead preparing to land
in a nearby clearing when jonathan and the others climbed to the top of the gorge the marines were
quickly intercepted by armed men dressed in black fatigue styled similarly to a swat team
it was almost like they were there already they were on the ground already and and whoever was
flying over was coming in after they these guys had landed so i'm and i'm not sure where they
they landed where they were but they were just there on top of the site within a few minutes and so
i can't remember exactly how it's speculation on your part you don't know for sure but you
think it's possible that team may have been there first yeah they were all they were definitely
there first and they were monitoring us too i'm sure they knew we were in the area we got up there
and you're but they looked army but they didn't have you know insignia on them right they were same
color and all this these men spoke with american dialects but bore no insignia patches or identification
the men were older in their late 30s and 40s and immediately showed signs of extreme hostility
and aggression black bdus right what was the army would call bdus like our camis right they're
like our our uh fatigues but they would have been totally black totally black sure and they had helmets
on um no the guys that were on the deck no they had uh those uh they had boony caps and they had
just the soft uh army covers round army covers do you remember what kind of weapons they had was it
back here in the marisa i think they had mp3s and and glocks and shotguns okay so i think maybe
there was a few m16s i mean this has been a long time they had many guns on the on the on the uh
47s so the ch is actually had they had many guns on the side did they have a man at the gun yeah
they had a man and he was wearing like this skull type of freaking helmet man it's like a really wicked
yeah it looks so when when this team encountered you guys did they have their weapons trained at
you were you not at gunpoint oh yeah and so they immediately start do they strip you guys of gear
what do they rough you up yeah no they were we were setting our gear up and taking them out and
throwing it out and emptying our pockets and everything later in our investigation we will
devote a significant amount of time to attempt to track down the origin of this team so sit tight
for a little bit having the jump on the marines the unknown operators stripped wagan allen and
adkins of their gear and weapons the young lance corporal took a swing at one of the men cracking
him on his head for his transgressions jonathan was beaten restrained and forced to lie down face
down on the jungle floor getting even more of the strange liquid on him during this scuffle a team
of near 30 began departing the landed ch 47 helicopters this team featured individuals in
rain jackets bearing three letters delta oscar echo oh yeah they were like scientists i suppose
they had uh this type of uh like um we call it mop gear right mission oriented protective posture
and uh they had gas masks on and like rubber suits and uh they were they were coming around and yet
all kinds of weird people there some had some version of mop or personal protective posture on
and personal protective gear and uh and it was all different ones different kinds do we is of
course the acronym for the infamous department of energy the successor to the atomic energy
commission whose 1954 atomic energy act historically served as a monolith to misclassify ufo materials
and data as quote unquote trans classified foreign nuclear information is there any indication that
department of energy is involved in uap data collection and housing i don't have an answer
i can't confirm or deny that in a public setting and could you do it in a secure setting yes the
do we really needs no introduction whether it's my work the reporting of chris sharp or the words
of david grush the do we is almost always mentioned as a primary pillar of ufo legacy program operations
key in my work are the numerous implications of the does ffr dcs or federally funded research and
development centers such as laurence livermore national labs low salamos national labs sandia
national labs and do we contractors such as triad national security one third of which is run by
betel memorial institutes direct involvement in technologies of unknown origin exploitation
programs and similar to the seasoned operators soon in this video we will attempt to track down
exactly what this do we team was where they were stationed and more in addition to the people in
department of energy rain jackets the team featured members dressed in biological containment
suits dawned with do we lettering we can't describe these as similar to spacesuits it wasn't like
that it was more high-tech like this big jumpsuits that you zip up the back and you can like we're
breathing apparatus in there those guys there was about 30 of them at least and they marched right by
me as i was i was being taken away they were marching to get down into the cliff i guess they
were in there to check this thing out these suits mentioned remindingly closely of myriad crash
retrieval team testimonies i've covered in the past and i'm immediately reminded of eyewitness
accounts to the 1965 kexburg pennsylvania ufo crash where witnesses claimed that men in quote
unquote moon suits carried boxes and equipment into the crash site a little while later there
was a large truck pulled in a light colored truck box van pipe out of it there was four guys come
out they had what we call moon suits at the time they were white coverall type suit they took a
box out of their box maybe four or five foot square they carried down four handles and they
carried that down to the object but just right after that there was a military man
after being restrained and beaten by the operators jonathan was stripped his underwear by the men
in containment suits before having his feet bound and was handcuffed to a stretcher did the other
two sergeants have any liquid on them uh no not that i remember i'm the only one i think got hit with
all that because they were they they did not go up under the the craft and in the very close immediate
vicinity of it at this time wagant was separated from alan and adkins and taken aboard one of the
teen's helicopters no no they said that you know that that that that i was they were cussing at me
saying that i was a why don't you why don't you f*** people ever you know pay attention to orders
you aren't supposed to be there and you're not supposed to see this and you know you're
you're going to be dangerous if we let you go and all this stuff yeah i mean i thought i was i
thought they were going to kill me really i thought we have i'm f***ing finished you
wagant was flown to a base different than his deployment site this location featured
significantly more permanent structures than his radar site and jonathan guessed this was
partially a peruvian military installation curiously here wagant observed not just americans on site
but many nationalities there's a lot of other nationalities there are chinese
germans i think were there i mean a lot of other people were at this other base
but i mean this thing it was really i mean i didn't go in and all they did was take me to like a
like a you couldn't call it a cell it was more of like a it was more like an interrogation but
i sat in there for i don't know 15 hours yeah they were merged man that was the other thing because
yeah a lot of those dudes didn't the china there was two chinese dudes there that i remember
they spent very little english but they were in the german the german spent perfect english right
they were in military fatigues yeah same black do they have weapons yeah pistols i would assume
that they were glocks but i didn't i couldn't see them because they're the they're the standard
us pistol like and it covers it up they were holstered on the hip yeah right so this these guys
by their black hammies may have been from the same team yeah i was looking at them and they
yelled at me they're not for me not to look at them look at them wow i didn't think they wanted
me to remember and that's what they why they did that from what you could see what were they doing
were they just kind of at general station yeah just whatever they were doing i don't know what they
were doing with whatever i have a strong thesis of where this location might be and we will discuss
this soon wagant was not taken into a cell or forced into isolated barracks but was instead taken
underground and sequestered in an interrogation room where he was contained for up to two days
during this hellacious stay jonathan was interrogated and tormented by one of the
operators who detained him and i couldn't really relatively identify any of these guys but i knew
i knew that i knew one of them was at the crash site because they were one of the guys that i
recognized because he was in black fatigue and he's like what you see and he's like weird and he's
like growling you know he goes are you a patriot you like the constitution i'm like yeah he's like
well we don't we do it you know we're on our own program you know we don't obey we just do what we
want he's like yeah and they're like and they're growling and they're relishing you know and they're
yelling at me and they're hollering the cursing we didn't see anything you know and we'll do you
and your whole family and they're you know it was it was basically that for about eight or nine hours
i mean they took breaks basically they're like look man we're gonna we're gonna we're gonna just
we're gonna take you off in the helicopter when we was kicked out out of the jungle and you're just
gonna get you know we're gonna end you and all this and they didn't physically they didn't physically
put their hands on me i was sitting in a chair and i was handcuffed in the chair and i couldn't
so basically you know it was just this this like harassment towards the end of his confinement
a lieutenant colonel from the air force visited weigand this colonel bore no name tag nor did he
disclose his identity the colonel threatened weigand's life repeatedly telling him this clandestine
operation would have no trouble leaving weigand dead in the jungle the colonel then made weigand
sign multiple documents securing his silence on his incredible yet horrific encounter and he told me
you know you know you know if we just took you out in the jungle you know they'd never find you
out there and i'm like and you know i didn't want to see you know you know i didn't want to test
and see if you'd really do that so i said yeah and he's like you got to sign these papers and
you never saw this and i don't exist in this situation never happened and if you tell anybody
you know you know you'll just come on messing and and he was a real abrasive just just just a cynical
i guess the best way to put it you know what what papers well there were it was a the standard
form that you signed for it's like it's almost like a waiver i don't know i'd probably be able to
identify another paper like that i guess it's it's for if you if you've seen something you're not
supposed to sign that you didn't see it or whatever it's basically a security form i believe and there
was two of those that i signed and after that i was driven back to my base jonathan was finally
driven back to his original radar installation this is a key point here for our upcoming investigation
wagon was in close enough proximity to be driven back to the original base and not flown i don't
remember leaving though but i know i went out because they they they put a uh they put a mask over
me i had a mask over me when i when i got to the base they put it on before i got out of the helicopter
and uh when i left from where i was where they held me they put one on um i mean it had something
open where i could breathe but i couldn't see and i couldn't hear and they brought me out and
they took me to this flatline jonathan was segregated with use af personnel at his
original base for three weeks before being sent back to cherry point while there jonathan had no
opportunity to contact allen adkins or the other marines by may of 97 while still in service jonathan
became tormented by the event experiencing horrific nightmares missing time and weird dreams
none of these symptoms had occurred before witnessing the crash to this day jonathan
maintains there were internal usmc attempts to make him appear unstable and an unreliable witness
by late 97 jonathan confessed to using banned substances so he could be discharged by the
marines around this time mac g 28 and the criminal investigation division made his life horrific and
by march of 1998 wagon was discharged now let's move over to investigating the retrieval encounter
in extreme detail an attempt to break down every single detail of this retrieval
after we climbed back up the uh the i think the doe department of energy people were there
they knew about it and i don't know why we went there still in this day but anyway i was arrested
uh i had all my gear taken from me by men and black hammies had no no name tags they were older
probably in their third late 30s or 40s i got a little scuffle with them and i hit one of them i
took a swing one of them and i hit him in the forehead yeah they had they had the big d you
know delta oscar echo on the back of their back of a couple the guys were wearing like these uh
these rain jackets because it had been raining the fall of the previous day and they were in
there and there were other guys that were wearing containment like biological suits
it wasn't like that it was more high-tech like those big jump suits that you zip up the back and
you can like wear a breathing apparatus in there those guys there was about 30 of them at least
and they marched right by me as i was i was being taken away they were marching to get down into
the cliff i guess they were in there to check this thing out on their black uniforms was there any
sign of rank no no rank okay no name tapes none of that but when you encounter these guys was
there any semblance that there was a hierarchy oh yeah there was definitely a yeah there was
definitely higher the team leader was he an aggressive one or oh they were all aggressive
i just i don't know man to be honest with you could you gauge the temperament of the doe team
did they seem to focus on the mission what no they were kind of like power man going crazy
running around swarming like rats yeah do they have any equipment yeah i don't know what it was
before we investigate let's quickly review jonathan's encounter with this unknown military
and scientific team near the crash site ignoring cries of danger by sergeant allen and sergeant
adkins lands corporal weigh gantt cut only 15 to 20 minutes at the crash site before two to four
us army ch 47 chinooks began to land in the nearby hasty lz climbing out of the ravine the marines
were met by operators in black camis featuring no insignia or identification these operators who spoke
with american dialects likely arrived prior to the teams in the ch 47s and disarmed and apprehended
the marines being a rambunctious young soldier weigh gantt took a swing at one of the clandestine
operators connecting his fist with the man's head these rogue operators restrained jonathan and
forcefully laid him face down on the ground where he got more of the strange clear syrupy liquid on
him while jonathan was being restrained a group of maybe 30 began walking from the landed ch 47s
down into the crash site in the ravine the personnel were comprised largely of men in
rain jackets marked delta oscar echo or do e aka the department of energy alongside these men
were multiple individuals in suits and hazmat gear jonathan described as mission oriented
protective posture or mop gear jonathan was forced to strip to his underwear discarding the
clothes covered in the mysterious liquid by the suit clad do e personnel before having his hands
cuffed feet bound and he was then carried onto a stretcher to one of the ch 47s jonathan was not
taken aboard with sergeant atkins and sergeant allen but instead isolated and forcefully taken
to an unknown camp let's pause here and break this down jonathan's mention of do e assets in
the peruvian jungle gives us some extremely actionable data points remember weigh gantt and
his fellow marines learned about the crash between 11 p.m. and midnight departed to investigate around
three to four a.m. and arrived to the crash site around six to seven a.m. from intelligence to
arrival the marines took a maximum of eight hours in roughly the same time span plus maybe an extra
hour or two if the department of energy was privy to advance signals intelligence of the
ufo being targeted possibly by peruvian hawk mim 23 missile batteries the do e was able to mobilize
american personnel assets and containment suits to secure the crash area this would imply the recovery
team was highly organized and likely a rapid reaction recovery unit this unit was able to plan
mobilize execute and contain a ufo crash retrieval site within roughly eight to nine hours remember
back to my work on us o retrievals in the deep submergence rescue vehicle under project sand
such submersibles were deployable anywhere in the world within 72 hours this 30 plus man team
was able to deploy and react to peru in roughly 11 percent of that 72 hours in numerous videos in
the past i have spoken about ufo crash retrieval rapid recovery units whether this be the use half
blue berets allegedly on site for the 1965 kexpert pennsylvania crash retrieval the blue boys rapid
retrieval and transport helicopter units relate to lennard stringfield or the rapid response
use half unit first on site to the 1953 kingman arizona crash stories of highly structured
and efficient dedicated ufo recovery units are inseparable from ufo crash retrieval testimonies
in fact wegan's description of the onsite team reminds me extremely closely of an enigmatic brutal
and perplexing ufo crash recovery case i have covered before in extreme detail the 1974 koyame
mexico ufo crash retrieval this case has very little in the form of evidence-based paper trails
but outlines an incredible and logical crash retrieval encounter in this case us intelligence
agencies specifically the cia monitored a ufo from the gulf of mexico that after a series of jagged
and abrupt turns crashed into the northern chihuahua part of mexico according to the primary
source document of this case the allegedly leaked deneve report the cia mobilized a rapid recovery
unit out of fort blitz texas this team arrived onsite from four unmarked helicopters including
uh1 huys and ch53 superstallions equipped with hazmat gear hazmat or mop gear was required at
this crash site according to the deneve report because of a whole containment breach of toxic
materials gas or liquid out of the ufo that subsequently killed the mexican military retrieval
team there is of course an argument the us rapid recovery team killed these mexican soldiers but
that is not our topic let's remain in 1974 to attempt to uncover the origins of this doe team
this year saw the creation of the department of energy and national nuclear security administrations
nuclear emergency support team formerly known as the nuclear emergency search team aka nest
previously i have labeled nest as the onsite retrieval science team wey gantt encountered
in the jungles of peru in 1997 just like other excellent researchers like rgh ufo's did before
me today however i have even stronger conviction nest handled the recovery of a non-human vehicle
and hazardous containment breach of a mysterious liquid suffered by a young marine during operation
laser strike but what is this nest nest or nuclear emergency support team was created under executive
order 12656 nest was founded as a doe specialized nuclear emergency organization that assisted the
fbi and numerous government agencies by quote providing technical expertise and advice in
response to a variety of potential incident threats involving nuclear materials end quote
analyzing a 1996 nest briefing the closest available document to the time of our crash
nest engaged in myriad deployment activities serving as an operational emergency management
team or oemt and also as a threat credibility assessor ensuring nest was the quote unquote
initial party to the scene on mission deployment sites nest would restrict access perform diagnostics
and threat mitigation actions agency planning and coordination as well as handle disablement
and cleanup in short nest operated as an umbrella organization to handle all nuclear and radiological
emergencies for the department of energy the mission of nest is to be quote prepared to respond
immediately to any type of radiological accident or incident anywhere in the world end quote around
1996 nest enjoyed its own arsenal of vehicles including high-tech vans mbb bo 105 helicopters
and numerous jets including sesna citation twos that featured a max speed of 464 miles per hour
and remember that speed as it will become quite important later on now it is crucial to mention
nest personnel did not consist of armed operators therefore it is safe to assume the operators
in black camis were not nest operators though it is possible they were still doe assets we will
get to that soon personnel in nest circa 1996 included chemists engineers health physicists
management and logistics personnel nuclear physicists analysts etc the corporate team
members of the nuclear emergency support team consisted of some familiar faces to this channel
nest forces have historically been comprised of contractors rather than the department of defense
not only did nest partner with raytheon but also e g and g los alamos national labs sandia national
labs and laurence livermore national labs as we discussed earlier a cornerstone of my work is
discussing the missing link of u.s. government corporate ufo legacy programs the subject matter
expert federally funded research and development centers or ffr dcs alongside institutions like
the mitre corporation rand corporation center for naval analyses los alamos sandia and laurence
livermore national labs operate as ffr dcs for the u.s. department of defense sandia and laurence
livermore were also directly accused by usaff master sergeant edgar fuchsia as engineering the
propulsion devices from the reverse engineered triangular craft the tr 3b i've also discussed
sandia national labs as implicated in ufo technology transfer with at and t and bell labs as well as
serving as a ufo legacy program location to house craft and biologics has outlined in the disputed
majestic 12 and interplanetary phenomenon unit documents and a quick side note while these
documents i just mentioned may be disputed the interplanetary phenomenon unit was proven to
exist through foyer requests done by ufo researcher william steinman in the 1980s however according
to the army no records of this unit existed due to it existing only through institutional memory
los alamos sandia and laurence livermore are labs intimately entwined with ufo lore quite
recently i discussed provable subterranean facilities existing below sandia and los alamos
and their possible connection to ufo legacy programs and one of nest partners e g and g
really needs no introduction this former contractor is infamous in ufo lore serving as
the contractor bob lasar claimed employed him to attempt to reverse engineer ufo propulsion devices
at area 51 s4 and e g and g's nevada parking lot also served as the meeting place for the
disputed but likely accurate 2002 wilson davis meeting notes funny enough nest themselves
in a 1995 nest assessment team report stated quote the laboratory program managers enjoy a
relatively high degree of autonomy and independence with respect to focusing efforts and funding
on those elements of their internal programs which they have deemed to be the most important
end quote this intriguing and free management style around nest laboratories arose from the
laboratory's heavy focus on research and development activities during formative years
under executive order 12656 which created nest the primary authority to nest was the 1954
atomic energy act mention of the atomic energy commission's atomic energy act of 1954 should
immediately set off alarm bells this 1954 act has been labeled specifically in the schumer
rounds legislation as a system for misclassifying ufo data and materials historically misclassifying
them as trans classified foreign nuclear information or by the acronym tfni whether the
ufo wagon encountered emitted signs of radiological signatures when tracked by laser strike radar
or intelligence agency radars matters not as ufo materials have historically been hidden within
the exact 1954 act that provided oversight to nest however it is indeed possible this craft
emitted signatures of interest to attract the eyes of the doe recently i covered a 1991 deep
sea ufo retrieval case in which a triangular craft that had sat on the sea for 30 or 40 years was
recovered by a naval dsrv crew due to survey ships recognizing radioactive signatures from the sea
floor further intriguing links exist between jonathan's testimony and nest in february of 1997
just one to two months before wagans encounter nest introduced the jtot or joint technical
operations team this team aimed to provide deployable and technical operational support for nest to
do d at even faster speeds than present nest teams and this team operated 365 days a year at 24 hours
a day let's reference diffusing armageddon inside nest america's secret nuclear bomb squad by author
jeffrey t richelson the same author of the us intelligence community that provided extremely
valuable information on the national underwater reconnaissance office around 1997 russia blasted
a probe from the bay kanor cosmodrome in kazakhstan carrying the mars 96 probe the fourth stage of this
proton rocket failed leaving the rocket unable to escape earth mars 96 did not carry an onboard
nuclear reactor but did in fact carry 18 small energy generators powered by plutonium 238 but
this was enough to get nest's attention us space command estimated the probe was large enough some
pieces would survive re-entry and the unlucky countries of origin were estimated to be bolivia
or columbia nest debated deployment to bolivia or columbia two countries considered quote-unquote
not very important but ceased action once surviving debris landed west of south america in the pacific
ocean what is interesting here is that the same year as wagans encounter nest considered deployment
to recover a probe in country's neighboring peru nest acted off intelligence gathered from us
space command and their defense support program dsp satellites and now i have made an entire video
on the subject of fast walkers a term used by us north com and norad to designate any strange
object leaving or entering earth's atmosphere at incredible speeds in the 2016 hillary clinton
campaign leaks communications were found between clinton campaign manager john pedesta and usg
contractor bob fish in these exchanges fish stated quote one of the government programs that collects
hard data on unidentified flying objects is the usaf dsp satellite program end quote in the same
video i covered an incredible dsp fast walker case related to journalist and former army
criminal investigation command agent joseph stifula this case allegedly saw a ufo traveling at 22
thousand miles per hour towards earth pass within 1.5 miles of a dsp satellite before changing course
and by the way guess which us agency has a history of developing and managing dsp satellites
yes the nr o or national reconnaissance office remember from numerous projects of mine and the
incredible articles of chris sharp the nr o has been labeled time and time again as a big five
us intelligence agency that provides various forms of satellite intelligence for ufo domestic
and foreign crash retrieval incidents all this out of jeffrey t richelson's work is to say that
there are provable instances of dsp satellites and nest working in conjunction the same year as
wagan's testimony to cover debris in south america i think for wagan's case it is highly
likely the nr o managed dsp satellites monitoring the egg-shaped crafts crashing in peru and deployed
a nest rapid recovery unit to secure the site what strengthens this thesis even more is the fact
wagan himself mentioned a bunker below the laser strike radar station that was tracking ufo's
as we discussed while performing perimeter security wagan would state how he overheard
usaff personnel discussing aircraft flying in and out of atmosphere at mock 10 plus or almost
7700 miles per hour also recall how wagan mentioned us army ch-47s deploying the doe team in a
declassified 1995 nest assessment team report we can see the doe ensured with the department of
defense that suitable military aircraft would be made immediately available to support an emergency
deployment of nest forces and equipment nest also worked closely with the us naval explosive
ordinance disposal technology division in us army 52nd ordinance group it is possible in this
instance the ch-47 belonged to nest army partners indeed the us army south did begin supporting
counter-drug operations in south america in 1995 by providing aircraft such as for uh-60a or black
hawks for such operations until one november 1997 but what i think here is that it's quite probable
these army ch-47s used to transport the nest team were from the first battalion 228th aviation regiment
one 228th aviation is part of joint task force bravo a us south com forward-based expeditionary
task force operating to promote stability and security by countering transnational threats
including narco traffic throughout the 90s jtf bravo conducted numerous missions in central
and south america and saw the us army 7th special forces we discussed earlier work alongside the
128th aviation in support of the peru ecuador 1995 border disputes and interestingly enough
throughout the 90s one 228th aviation had headquartered in panama in honduras and featured a
fleet of helicopters including ch-47 chinooks i do need to quickly mention we are faced with an
additional possibility of the origin of these helicopters as we move on to discuss the black
operators and us special forces we must also discuss the 160th special operations aviation
regiment a us army special forces special mission unit that provides helicopter aviation support
for special operations forces nickname the night stalkers the 160th often works with joint special
operations command the night stalkers are some of the army's greatest qualified aviators crew
chiefs and support soldiers and employ a massive fleet of helicopters including numerous ch-47
chinooks the night stalkers have even deployed on several missions of interest here including
recovering a down soviet helicopter in june of 1988 now there is no record of the night stalkers
performing operations in south america during the 1990s in fact closest we can get is deployment
out of panama for operation desert storm in 91 obviously with special forces operations there
would likely be next to no record of covert activities by the 160th sor in the region but
the reason i suspect the 128th aviation from jtf bravo ch-47 chinooks were used over the highly
qualified special operations force the night stalkers is because of provable ch-47s existing
under the 128th aviation and south coms domain at the time of our crash retrieval incident the
night stalkers are stationed out of fort camble kentucky and it is technically impossible for the
team to have flown chinooks to peru and commence the operation in the roughly nine hours we
outlined for the doe team but this is all to say it is very possible elements of the night
stalkers were stationed in south coms domain as part of a ufo rapid recovery team especially if
laser strike had already monitored numerous ufos but for now we are forced to look at provable
existing vehicles in the region that would satisfy the retrieval operation and now this
brings us to the armed men in black camis with no insignia i do think we are faced with a few
possibilities here in the same 1995 nest assessment team report we can see nest additionally
worked alongside us special operations and us navy special operations i have often spoke and
reflected on the work of excellent journalist chris sharp exposing the cia's office of global
access born in 2003 out of the cia directorate of science and technology the office of global
access or oga was accused by sharp as participating in foreign ufo crash recovery operations while
oga provided operational logistics and intelligence agencies provided various forms of intelligence
sharp labeled jsoc or joint special operations command as serving as the boots on the ground
force for such retrieval operations and as we discussed earlier joint special operations
command is a subordinate command within special operations command sharp myself and others have
accused jsoc in the socom as participating directly in ufo crash retrievals interestingly
jsoc is comprised of the best of the best of us special forces delta for seal team six the 24th
sts regimental reconnaissance company and the intelligence support activity the shadowy
intelligence support activity is often known as the most mysterious unit of jsoc task force orange
as it sometimes referred to was originally created under us army inscom or intelligence and security
command us army inscom was created under general albert stubblebine a figure famous in ufo lore
stubblebine showed keen interest in utilizing psi phenomena such as remote viewing for military
usage and has also been accused by numerous individuals such as philip j corso and steven
as participating directly in ufo legacy program operations at fort hachuka arizona all this is
to say i do think it is highly likely wegan encountered unmarked socom or jsoc units alongside
the doenest team the question here is were these units currently stationed in peru for laser strike
or deployed rapidly from a base similar to the doenest crew this is up for debate but i do have
my own strong thesis here let's break this down wegan did state during his deployment performing
perimeter security for laser strike he did encounter special forces operators training
as a matter of fact us special forces were deployed to peru during this time let us analyze in 1996
to 1997 document pulled from the defense technical information center titled the us military and drug
war in peru as we mentioned earlier this document details 14 special forces counter drug deployments
to peru conducted by us south com or us southern command these forces would regularly engage in
riverine training as it turns out and this will become extremely important soon us south com held
the mar forlant marine forces atlantic riverine training team in iqitos peru for utilization
under operation laser strike iqitos is a host to all sorts of us military installations of
interest we will touch on soon circling back there is the south com unit deployed to peru in 1997
we discussed earlier i highly suspect did indeed intercept wegan and his fellow marines and secured
a ufo crash site these being the us army seventh special forces unit aka the us army green berets
due to their consistent execution of us south com missions including a historical presence
training encountering narcotic distribution in central and south america especially in northern
peru i wager here the army seventh special forces were quote-unquote recruited by doe nest to serve
as the enforcement arm of a ufo crash retrieval operation now there is a secondary argument here
of who these operators could be far less likely in my opinion but still worth exploring this being
the department of energy special response team these anti-nuclear terrorist teams are the doe's
own elite task force an elite operator force entrusted with moving nuclear arsenals across
the continental united states the special response team has a rest on site authority and at least
in the 1980s dawned all black camis similar to the outfits described by wagan historically in the
late 90s doe srt units also provided security for sensitive doe defense nuclear facilities
including low salamos national labs and laurence livermore national labs sound familiar these
teams were trained by wacken hut wacken hut was a private security company i have talked about
extensively had historically guarded usa legacy program sites through their industrial security
expertise former cia director and director of naval intelligence admiral bobby ray inman
who admitted to nasa mission specialist bob eschler recovered ufos may one day become
available for scientific research once served as chairman of wacken hut while i can find no
data to suggest doe srt's have ever operated outside of the united states it stands to reason
such a team could travel with nest assets to incredibly sensitive materials such as a crashed
ufo protected by the 1954 atomic energy agreement act
after all our investigation into the team with delta oscar echo on their protection
suits and rain jackets as well as the armed anonymous americans and black camis i think
we can construct a powerful thesis us forces engaged in counter narcotics reconnaissance
systems for operation laser strike monitored a ufo in addition to radar it is likely the
defense support program satellites run by the nr o either picked up the same ufo or elements of
laser strike were also involved with the defense support program the ufo then crashed in wagan's
estimate this crash was caused as we discussed earlier by peruvian air force surface to air hawk
missile batteries from data gathered by intelligent sources likely dsp with support from the nr o a
doe nest retrieval team was dispatched via internal nest jet assets with a point of origin in the
mainland united states the southern most nest facility here is sandia national labs in new
mexico the nest team either departed with a doe special response team srt or leveraged green
beret special forces assets to provide on-site protection for securing the crash zone nest also
leveraged per their dod authority several us army ch47 chinooks from either the 160th soar
night stalkers or one 228th aviation from jtf bravo station nearby in us south com territory
during the crash recovery and deployment of on-site directives nest and the first to arrived armed
entourage encountered a group of marines that had happened upon the crash site first one marine
resisted detainment and was confined due to coming in contact with possibly hazardous materials
leaking from the non-human craft the young marine was stripped of his contaminated clothes by nest
personnel in biohazard suits isolated from his fellow marines and taken to a secure base with
medical facilities for quarantine interrogation and debrief the mac g28 marine was held in
isolation for up to 48 hours threatened repeatedly and forced under fear of death to sign confidentiality
agreements the marine was then driven back to his operational base where he was soon forced to
return to cherry point north carolina okay now that we have outlined our thesis let's step
back and explore this piece by piece we must start by analyzing where exactly was jonathan
wagon stationed and where may of this crash occurred operation laser strike was conducted
primarily in puculpa peru however there were two secondary locations that supported operation
laser strike and peruvian counter drug operations while also featuring tps 43 radar systems within
iqitos and andoas many familiar with the case of wagon believes he was stationed at puculpa
the primary laser strike facility and while this is indeed possible i would like to propose a
secondary possible station elements of laser strike are still classified to this day and i
know this because i've spoken to one of the marines wagon described he was with in his testimony
the marine refused to discuss many details of laser strike with me since the operation was
still classified to me this partially rules out puculpa as the base at which jonathan
alan adkins and others were stationed but why puculpa at least since 2001 has received public
as a laser strike location one of the marines i talked to his unwillingness to speak about
their base of operations leads me to believe it was not puculpa furthermore wagon stated his unit
flew into lima peru via c 130 then took a multiple hour flight with one stop to travel to their
operational base jonathan was unaware of where exactly this location was and puculpa is around
300 miles from lima at the cruise speed of a c 130 this journey from lima to puculpa would take
less than one hour however there was a laser strike location up north in peru that existed
more than 630 miles away from lima at a cruising speed a c 130 would take near two hours to complete
this journey with an added stop this satisfies our journey conditions of several hours this laser
strike location is usaf detachment five in iqitos peru detachment five is a very private
installation i can only find one mention of in the 1990s or onward iqitos is home to usaf radar
detachment five the mar forlant riverine training team discussed earlier in namru six now called
namru south aka the navy medical research unit all three of these locations significance will
become apparent very soon especially when wegan't discuss the facility he was taken to by the doe
team and the permanent structures there on site now i can find next to no information about the
andoas laser strike site but these aforementioned locations at iqitos lead me strongly to believe
iqitos is the correct location wegan't stated his radar station was tracking narcotics traffic from
analyzing narco routes from 1998 we can see drug transport routes passing directly through
iqitos peru but let's go step by step through the incident and try to reconstruct wegan't's
encounter jonathan was informed of a crashed aircraft near 11 p.m to midnight by three to four
a.m the lance corporal sergeant adkins sergeant allen's and multiple marines and humvees departed
for the crash area after a combination of driving and trekking the marines reached the crash area
as the sun was rising around six to seven a.m what this means is that from the time the marines
left their base of operations which i highly suspect is the enigmatic usaff radar detachment
five in iqitos peru to the time the marines got to the crash only between two and four hours had
elapsed but let's break this down remember wegan't claimed the marines drove humvees and
trekked to the crash area wegan't would also make mention that while he was analyzing the craft
up close he was incredibly sweaty but made no mention of fatigue due to the hiking while a
marine equipped with a full loadout and weapon would certainly get quite sweaty quickly in the
peruvian air average temperatures in march and peru are only 77 degrees fahrenheit with a sunrise
temp being much cooler due to these factors we will take the average time elapsed to the crash
site three hours and assume the marines drove for two and a half hours and trekked for 30 minutes
humvees drive at max speeds of 70 miles per hour but operate conservatively especially on
jungle terrain and roads therefore we will assume the caravan of marines traveled at 35 miles per
hour at two and a half hours of driving this means if the marines traveled in a straight line the
soldiers could have traveled near 88 miles the average human hikes at roughly two to three miles
per hour and we will assume here trained soldiers who got a pep in their step could trekk two miles
in 30 minutes with this information and a tremendous amount of error and i fully understand my
calculations are based on heavy assumptions we can assume the crash occurred in a 90 mile radius
outside of iquitos to try and correct for some of my error here i will give a plus minus of 25
percent error we are then left with this general area of where the crash may have occurred now
recall wegan did say the crash occurred just over the border but he stated the bolivian borders
specifically 5 to 10 miles from the bolivian border now if wegan's testimony is true this
means he either got the border of bolivia incorrect confusing the country with the borders of either
brazil or columbia or he was stationed at a secretive location in southeast peru that featured
multiple camps and permanent structures now i tend to believe the former and that jonathan
misspoke as his laser strike installation was tasked with tracking bolivian narco traffic
and iquitos employed a significant amount of us do d permanent structures and assets that line up
with jonathan's testimony and the timeline of events what reinforces this thesis is the point
we discussed earlier that the us army seventh special forces and joint task force bravo containing
the first battalion 228th aviation regiment had historically conducted us south com missions in
northern peru during the 1955 peru ecuador border dispute so it is interesting the men in black
camis i wager where us army seven special forces were already available to secure the crash site
in northern peru anyways we can conclude from the exploration above wegan adkins and the fellow
marines uncovered the crashed ufo 5 to 10 miles from either the columbian or brazilian border
in one of these two general regions within 15 to 20 minutes the marines arriving the crash
site was secured by multiple us army ch-47 helicopters doe personnel and armed men in
black camis wagantis certain arrived to the scene before the ch-47s it was almost like they were
there already they were on the ground already and and whoever was flying over was coming in after
they these guys had landed so i'm and i'm not sure where they landed where they were but they
were just there on top of the site within a few minutes i can't remember exactly how it's speculation
on your part you don't know for sure but you think it's possible that team may have been there first
yeah they all they were definitely there first and they were monitoring us too i'm sure they knew
we were in the area when we got up there near it but they looked army but they didn't have you
know insignia on them right they were same color and all this from the data we've discussed above
an involvement of nr row managed dsp satellites i wager this rapid reaction retrieval team had
maybe one hour advanced notice of the crash to the marines therefore let's assume this retrieval
team had a maximum of nine hours to gather intelligence assemble brief and reach the crash
site with a detailed operational plan remember at this time nes teams were historically stationed
at us department of energy laboratories so i think it is extremely unlikely any team would have
been stationed in south america at this time in this instance one of the closest major labs to
iqitos peru is a regular tricky customer of this channel central new mexico's sandia national labs
and recall back to discussing nest in the 1996 nest briefing nest was not only permitted to
commandeer any do d assets but also employed their own fleet of vehicles including sesna citation
two jets so my theory here would see a nest team departing sandia heading directly to iqitos u.s
military infrastructure via sesna citation two jets from iqitos or nearby south com installations
the team would commandeer us ch 47 helicopters likely from joint task force bravo and recruit
nearby special forces from the riverine training team or utilize a jsocker does rt team that traveled
with the nest team sandia's nearby largest city is santa fe new mexico and using santa fe as a
reference point travel distance to iqitos is 3446 miles a sesna citation two travels at
top speed of 464 miles per hour logically assuming the team wished to arrive to the retrieval site
with haste this flight would have taken around seven and a half hours from iqitos the team would
have a very short flight to arrive to the crash area around 90 to 100 miles away in a ch 47 that
travels 180 to 196 miles per hour at top speed so this journey here on the shorter end would have
taken roughly 30 minutes this means the nest team would have only required around eight hours total
of travel time with roughly one hour left for personnel and gear gathering necessary ground
briefings etc a tight squeeze but one that very well fits in the framework of wegan's testimony
and then they took me in the ch 47 and they they sent me to we we took off and
and uh and uh they they didn't drug me or anything like that and i was just awake there
and and they had me in a uh your question again is how long was i contained your subdued i don't
know for about two days i think i don't know no i don't i don't know they i didn't know where i was
because we landed and um we we we we flew and then we landed and then uh they took me out and
it was still i mean you know it's it wasn't in the same area that i was at this is more of like
there were structures prominent structures there i think was peruvian military but all this thing
man all i saw there was americans and there's a lot of other nationalities there are chinese
germans i think were there i mean a lot of other people weren't at this other base
but i mean this thing was really i mean i didn't go in and all they did was take me to like uh
like us you couldn't tell it itself was more of like uh it was more like an interrogation
but i sat in there for how long they had 15 hours land's corporal wegan was isolated from adkins
allen and the other marines he was flown to a location that was not his base of operations
which i wager was in iqitos now what's interesting is this location was close enough to his original
station that after one to two days of captivity wegan was driven back before being kept with
usaf personnel for three weeks another nod towards iqitos being the correct location with usaf
detachment five before being shipped back to cherry point at this interrogation room wegan was
contained isolated and threatened by some of the operators and black camis and was then forced to
sign documents swearing his silence by a usaf colonel describing this location wegan made a
very interesting set of remarks the location at which he was interrogated employed permanent
structures not makeshift forward operating bases like pulcapa laser strike location
it was at this base where he was interrogated he observed multiple different nationalities
in one area americans peruvians chinese and germans also recall twice wegan got the mysterious
liquid leaking from the craft on him once during his initial investigation of the crash site in a
second time when the black operators forcefully took him to the ground wegan also stated here the
doe team and hazmat gear stripped his clothes covered in the liquid due to these statements plus
wegan being isolated from adkins and allen i do think it likely the doe nest team had concerns
wegan was contaminated from interacting with the liquid for this reason i do have high suspicion
wegan was taken to namru 6 or namru south the navy medical research unit with offices in lima
peru and ikitos the us navy employs various namru locations around the globe which serve as dod
laboratories and centers namru sa at joint base san antonio texas namru 3 formally in egypt now
in siginella naval air station sicily italy namru endo pacific in singapore naval base namru south
with offices in lima and ikitos peru and namru d at right patterson air force base ohio
namru locations absolutely fit the dictionary definition of multicultural environments
namru installations serve as a network of biomedical research labs operated by the us navy
namru operates to conduct r&d on infectious diseases bio defense and numerous medical
topics related to military and public health namru is part of the navy medical research command
that conducts biomedical research to meet the needs of the navy and marine corps german
nationalists that specifically namru south are also not uncommon even in 2023 we can find examples
of german military and ambassadors visiting namru's lima location in my opinion namru would
serve as a perfect location for jonathan to be taken this location is within driving distance to
ikitos usaf detachment 5 and close to the us marfor lint riverine training team and obviously
this location is a sensible holding in quarantine zone for a us marine who is exposed to possibly
toxic materials in non-human craft now i do need to mention of course this theory is not
without its own kinks wegan stated he was only at this location for two days and while he was
contained in an interrogation type room he was still in close proximity to the usaf lieutenant
colonel that forced him to sign papers in the operator who threatened his life one might assume
wegan would have had to be quarantined for up to a week in isolation and would have had to undergo
numerous medical procedures to determine if any risk of sickness or contamination resided from the
fluid and wegan did specifically tell me he did not have to undergo any sort of medical procedures
at this location other factors at play do need to be worked through for this namru theory such as
the multi-nationals jonathan described being armed operators and not diplomats as well as this
holding location being underground remember this crash occurring near ikitos is just a theory of
mind constructed from the best available evidence for this crash retrieval testimony but even so
i do believe ikitos peru serves as the primary focus for our ufo crash retrieval and forced
holding of lance corporal jonathan wegan i have contacted countless individuals named by wegan
are possibly involved in this crash retrieval case these include multiple usaf personnel from
my keto's detachment five including lieutenant colonel gala biles second lieutenant randall
rothman and staff sergeant robert mcowd of the 649th combat logistics support squadron this outreach
was conducted in an attempt to identify if ikitos was indeed where wegan was stationed i plan to
inquire if us marines from the mac g28 performed perimeter security for the site if a doe team
ever stationed briefly at detachment five or borrowed their aircraft or if stories floated
around of a marine who went missing that turned up two days later as of today i have had no luck
contacting any usaf personnel involved in laser strike due to repeatedly hearing that some details
of the op are still classified i am not holding my breath however i will continue to pursue any and
all leads jonathan wegan did directly state a staff sergeant montaligre knew about the crash
site and that sergeant allen and sergeant adkins had both accompanied wegan to the site and observed
the crash day with 100 confidence i have identified all three of these men and all three are real usmc
veterans and enjoyed long accomplished careers with the corps after laser strike and i reached
out to all three on multiple platforms and as of this date only one marine has responded i choose
to keep the identity of this marine anonymous out of respect to the individual and to his service
to the united states i will also refrain from posting screenshots as i do not wish to break
this individual's trust nor do i have his permission to do so i reached out to these marines from
this channel's email address uapgerb at gmail.com which i highly encourage any first hand ufo legacy
program witnesses to contact this email does not contain my identity to protect my anonymity i emailed
one of these sergeants asking to talk to him about his service during laser strike in 1996 to 1997
i did also state that my outreach concerned an encounter relayed by a mac g28 lance corporal
but with held wegan's name who claimed he alongside a handful of sergeants encountered a unique
downed aircraft the sergeant responded hello and addressed me gerb by both my first and my last
name in this exchange the sergeant continued quote the operation is still classified however
there was no incident involving a unique downed aircraft that i know of or encountered during
my deployment i can speak to what never happened during my deployment and not cross the classification
restrictions of the operation and quote the sergeant reckoned i had received bad intel
regarding his involvement in the suggested incident i was pursuing i then asked the marine if he
had ever heard of a lance corporal's testimony of a crashed egg-shaped vehicle that involved
several other marines that may have been downed by human military assets such as hawk mim 23
missile batteries the marine responded he was aware of a lance corporal wegan that served under
his platoon much of this response by the sergeant focused on hawk surface to air missile systems
and the impossibility that the usmc employed a hawk battery during 1997 and of course wegan
does agree with this point hawk missile batteries were phased out of us forces in 1994 the marine
corps continued usage until 2002 but laser strike ceased usage of hawk in 1997 since his original
testimony wegan only theorized that this craft had been hit by a hawk system and that the missile
battery likely belonged to local peruvian forces and wegan held this theory due to the ballistic
and fragging pattern of damage on the egg-shaped craft wegan spent a tremendous amount of time
studying hawk mim 23 systems and maintains this conclusion to this day the sergeant not only
claimed wegan never deployed in support of operation laser strike but also stated wegan's story was
false and while he was a good young respectful obedient and dedicated marine he also suffered a
medical condition quote he was never a participant in any clandestine operations or efforts he was
just an laad marine and that was all end quote now let me be clear here i fully respect this
marine in question after all he dedicated much of his life to the service of this country but
i do have quite a few problems here with his statements jonathan wegan never once claimed
to participate in any clandestine operations this encounter simply involved a group of mac g28
marines sent out by their radar detachment to secure the lz of a downed aircraft the mac g28
marines in this testimony clearly conflicted with the clandestine mission of the do enes team
i also find the claims wegan never deployed to laser strike to be quite curious laser strike was
indeed a classified mission the marine i spoke to claimed wegan may have picked up bits and pieces
of deployment information for marines that did indeed deploy to laser strike but i find this
unlikely in wegan's testimony and all the way back to his initial outreach to steven greer on one
august 2000 the young lance corporal described operation laser strike extremely accurately
and the only detail that stands out as odd is how jonathan claimed his usaf radar base was near
the bolivian border i still maintain he likely meant iqitos near the columbian and brazilian
borders mac g28 marines from jonathan's us station cherry point north carolina did absolutely
deploy to laser strike this is a fact i find it odd wegan would not have deployed with the other
mac g28 marines for perimeter defense and low altitude aerial defense to replace the obsolete
hawk batteries similar to hit pieces on david grush i also have a tremendous issue when claims of
witnesses or whistleblowers are dismissed because of quote unquote health conditions jonathan has
been playing this incident affected his life extremely negatively from the violent interrogation
to feeling like non-human beings were calling out for his help in the craft wreckage jonathan
did not leave this incident unscathed in the slightest i must interject my own personal biases
here but i am close friends with mr wegan the man enjoys a successful career and relationships
with friends family and loved ones as far as i can tell the man does not suffer from fanciful
delusions to construct such a specific fantasy
since the witness testimony of jake barber the concept of egg shaped ufo retrievals has
grown significantly in popularity while wegan described a much larger more intricate craft
with hatches a band of light along its circumference and what seems similar to gills over barber's
suv side smooth white egg we can find multiple retrieval cases from history that share numerous
similarities to the alleged crash in peru in 1997 let's reference the work done by legendary
ufo crash retrieval researcher lenard stringfield and visit ufo crash retrieval status report three
between 1980 and 1982 stringfield became aware of one hj a sergeant in the us army 24th infantry
who was wounded during service in the korean war in july of 1953 whilst a private and b company at
camp poke louisiana a 17-year-old private hj and his unit under command of one sergeant rs were
performing duty maneuvers at dusk at roughly 7 p.m. hj's platoon observed an object that was egg
shaped crash land out in the boondocks according to hj authorities as well as a and b companies
were ordered out to the crash site at the site hj got within 15 yards of the object before a
lieutenant witting ordered company b to withdraw to 100 yards stating quote unquote peons like hj
quote had to get out of the way and quote interestingly enough we can place an actual
lieutenant witting at camp poke at this time the area around the craft was badly burned turning
nearby ground into a powdery substance like crushed brick and hj could still feel heat emanating
from the vehicle the craft was as wide as a three bedroom single story ranch house which by modern
standard estimates could be anywhere between 35 to 70 feet similarities here exist to wagons craft
estimates of 20 meters or roughly 66 feet the large ovoid object was without windows or lights and
quote was surrounded by a fin like protrusion on its equator which was still rotating end quote
another close similarity to wagons and discussion of a band of light traveling across the craft
circumference shortly after securing the site a special detachment medics an ambulance and special
equipment arrived on scene this detachment approached an open hatch on the side of the craft
after a while two medics carried away a stretcher to the ambulance containing a body three occupants
of the craft then emerged and were aided by medics seemingly injured hj would state quote one of them
kept looking at the one in the litter and made strange noises i couldn't believe what i was
seen end quote as incredible as this detail is we have discussed similar testimony before remember
back to the infographic show whistleblower testimony of a crash retrieval operator i put a lot of
stock into the witness in this program claimed in several ufo retrieval operations in which craft
were manned by biologics retrieval teams would often have to lead occupants out of the craft
these biologics were described seemingly as limited in cognitive ability possibly giving
some credence to the theory some ufo occupants are akin to biological androids that perform basic or
specific functions that night the two live ones apparently just kind of stood there as the team
entered the craft it had opened on its own maybe they opened the door i don't know if it was open
when we got there they stood there and they didn't answer the ambassador at all basically they just
barely reacted to anything just basic stimuli like turning their heads away from bright lights
they didn't even object when the medical team started looking them over for injuries or so i
was told i saw them when they were led out of the craft and i do mean they were let out like
children the medical guys grabbed them by the hand and just let them out like a kid they just sort
of stood where you left them hj described these occupants as three and a half to four feet tall
of slight build and walked as if they had no knees or very stiff bending only at the hips
hj described large heads without features leading him to believe the creatures were covered by a
helmet the biologics were a tight fitting dull metallic green uniform later on hj would somehow
learn that these biologics were sent to a hospital and quote unquote put into isolation but all died
in captivity he also learned the corpses were sent over to a medical center near washington dc
this could of course perhaps be the army's fort detrick roughly 40 miles away from dc at fort
detrick betel memorial institute manages the national biodefense analysis and countermeasures
center ffr dc i have previously implicated fort detrick alongside utah's dugway proving ground
in holding ufo biologics i highly recommend checking out my video on dugway to learn more
hj's experience at fort polk shares striking similarities to wagant but let's go even further
let's now jump to stringfield's 1991 ufo crash retrievals the inner sanctum status reports six
and investigate the case of barnabas aka albert bruce collins much of stringfield's work here
came from ufo researcher tim cooper one of the primary researchers who received significant
drops of majestic 12 documents in the 1980s also recall from my majestic 12 project with
author ryan wood how tim cooper's father usaff master sergeant harry b cooper received a special
citation from the legendary general entwined in ufo lore courtesy lemay this letter to tim cooper's
father from lemay praised harry b cooper for his work on the quote unquote usaff ufo program anyways
cooper interviewed barnabas aka albert bruce collins shortly before his 1990 new year's eve death on
20 november 1990 collins claimed to be a metallurgical engineer and retired government employee
specifically developing metal alloys used for electromagnetic propagation and magnetic field
propulsion from 1942 to the late 1950s and it is important to note i can't necessarily confirm
collins claims of an accomplished metallurgical engineering career while collins did in fact
die on 30 december 1990 all i can confirm from his obituary is he was a veteran a member of the
nra in a nature conservancy collins disclosed to cooper in 1947 he observed a ufo on a long
flatbed trailer covered with a green tarp being backed into a large warehouse at the university
of california berkeley i'm immediately reminded of us army lowboy trucks described in numerous
ufo retrieval cases such as the 1953 kingman crash and the 1965 kexburg pennsylvania crash
according to collins he stood but just 100 feet away from an oval-shaped craft described like an
egg with the shell cracked and the yoke still inside the craft was metallic similar to polished
aluminum with a silvery looking finish similar to wagant's case this egg featured a seam at the
edge all the way around collins guessed this craft suffered an internal explosion with the metal
exterior of the craft seemingly pushed out the retrieval had sustained significant amounts of
damage with a large section ripped off in a huge gash on top running down the side below the seam
from his 100 foot away vantage point collins observed a bulkhead in front with multi-layered
honeycomb skin the interior was dark but similar to the egg analogy there was a shiny sphere in
the center of the craft surrounded by another bulkhead the craft additionally featured a
forward compartment but collins could not see inside the vehicle was 30 to 40 feet in diameter
and roughly 15 feet high these dimensions are slightly smaller than the craft wagant described
but why even mention this short story of collins with no supporting documentation or even verification
of his work history as a metallurgical engineer well this is because in his 1990 interview with
tim cooper collins additionally disclose some information that may just raise your eyebrow
not only did collins claim to have studied metal of unknown composition and origin in an official
capacity but also claimed at this time 1949 he learned of a multitude of agencies involved in
tuo or technologies of unknown origin research this included intelligence offices from the
u.s. army air force and navy the cia the rand corporation founded just one year prior in 1948
and the vatican collins even claimed to have learned of multiple projects between these agencies
archangel between the cia rand and vatican black book under the air force the infamous
blue book under the air force white book between the cia and vatican and yellow book which served
as a scientific panel of an unknown government scientific review board while discussing these
projects collins added he had heard los alamos national labs had been studying green fireballs
and strange debris found in the desert and this last piece of data is what lends credence to some
of collins words as the atomic energy commission did indeed create a project twinkle in the late
40s and early 50s that analyzed ufo's including green fireballs at los alamos sandia white sands
and hauleman air force base of course this isn't our topic for today but these joint
projects with the vatican are highly interesting i have covered this case before but let's briefly
circle back to the 1933 magenta italy ufo crash retrieval case according to the case as well as
david grush in the late herald malmgren vatican intelligence alerted the united states of the
lenticular disk in axis possession this in turn allowed the us to capture this ufo saucer post
world war two it's incredible to then consider joint u.s vatican ufo programs that followed world
war two collins is quite the enigma and possibly in the future we will return to analyze further
claims of his included knowledge in project arc angel that determined some ufo occupants were
biological extraterrestrials there are many cases of egg shaped or tear drop shaped ufo
retrieval operations we just don't have the time to cover today i would also like to point to the
1973 great lake naval base rk testimony i covered in my previous naval ufo legacy programs project
in which gunnery school instructor rk observed a 30 foot long and 10 foot high tear drop shaped
ufo resting on a wooden platform in a quonset style hangar in the great lakes naval station
illinois this craft was allegedly shot down via a naval destroyer and picked up in the pacific
ocean by the national underwater reconnaissance officers glomar explorer hey guys it's grub and
i'd like to thank each and every single one of you for joining me on this very special investigation
into lance corporal jonathan wagan now those of you new to my videos will now know one this is an
ai and two this is where after the video i kind of do an off script kind of rant if you want to
call it and give my thoughts on the video give my thoughts on the investigation and kind of summarize
everything we've talked about returning viewers of this channel will probably know this is a very
special video as one of my first ever projects was on jonathan wagan but of course at that time
i didn't know jonathan i didn't have a relationship with him nor did i have the
investigative skills the video editing skills the research skills the writing skills to craft
such a project now originally the plan here was just to do an interview with wagan and so after
many months of knowing him and forming a friendship i went out to where he resides i'm not going to
go ahead and spill that but it's in the south as you can probably tell from his accent some of the
other accents we heard and i was fortunate enough to have my friend kermit uh frog and badger i've
had him on a live before right after the november 14 2024 hearings he was able to meet me out there
and help film and so forth so i want to give a huge shout out to him guys he's a great friend of
this channel i'd like to have him on some more lives uh he just on the drop of a pencil decided
to come up and help so huge shout out but this originally was planned to just be an interview
with wagan and as he and i started talking and as i started to sit with some of our conversations i
thought well maybe let's break this down a little bit and do a two-part series first wagan back in
2000 gave so much information really actionable information down to the does team due to names
and you guys know on this channel how much we love when names are given and in 2023 he offered
little new information so i thought why don't jonathan and i sit down and really iron out
some of the finer details of what he remembers because guys time is slipping away this incident
occurred according to jonathan in 1997 so we're pushing on 30 years here but i wanted to get some
of those details out and work out an investigation and then sit down and do an interview with jonathan
you guys know how i work i really want the firm foundation laid out before he and i sit down and
talk so i do plan on returning with him and kind of getting a more relaxed interview style of him
just speaking about his life speaking about his life before and after and so forth so that's
going to be coming down the pipeline but this project i thought it pertinent to to start digging
into some of the details with jonathan and then be able to do my own research and exploration
some of these added details included jonathan describing that the men in black kames where
they're on site first that was a huge question i had going into this whether uh to kind of ponder
if that team arrived on the ch-47s with the doe nest probably team or that they had arrived first
now the fact they arrived first according to jonathan gives even more credence to these were
local special forces now of course he didn't describe team any vehicles but in my opinion
the seventh army green berets probably utilized humbies or nearby vehicles to arrive on scene first
another key point here was the multinational group that these germans these chinese they were all
armed now that is a massive detail as well and one that i'm still trying to to solve here because
of course we've heard of multinational recovery team specifically with five eyes nations and
canadian politician larry maguire kind of writing to his own minister of defense in
canada saying we need to get information about uap because of five eyes projects and maybe retrieval
teams and another huge detail he talked about was him thinking the men in black camis were army
due to the helmets they had now if you're unfamiliar with military various factions of military army
marines navy all of their infantry and soldiers utilize different helmets so being able to track
down the helmets or kind of the caps they had wagon thought these guys were army and that's a huge
detail to to try and track down i also really enjoyed him talking about mop gear and varying
levels of that and that gives even more credence to me for the nest team varying levels of protection
versus how close and proximity these men would get to the craft now jonathan's testimony is of
course truly startling one of the big questions remains now is what happened to the craft after
and jonathan and i talked about this i i decided not to include it here because it's it's speculation
with very little basis here but that that's a very interesting question to me this craft was lodged
into a granite cliff face almost how was it taken out how was it retrieved because if we're talking
about c47s and the night stockers sure they may have airlifted some kind of picked apart soviet
helicopters before but how do you get a craft of non-human origin a massive one and what are some
of the logistics here where the biologics taken out first was the rest of the liquid contains
and then taken out and what went on here and i do think one of the interesting parts of this story
is the liquid now as we dug into it jonathan and myself he kind of theorized that you know
maybe this liquid wasn't just a fuel a propulsion system but he thought because some liquid was
coming out of the recessed hole the hatch that was open where he saw the biologic hanging out
that water was coming from there that this craft may have been filled with water and that brings
up the question what if the species he encountered were almost an aquatic species that lived in the
water and the craft contained almost an aquarium or a closed system of water of sorts i think these
questions are highly interesting to ponder i think one of the most fruitful and frustrating avenues
of this research was reaching out to the fellow marines adkins alan and montaligre total i probably
reached out to 10 people connected with laser strike only one responded to me and that was one
of the marines that wagant claimed he was with now it is important to note here all three of those
marines montaligre alan and adkins all went career usmc they all retired enlisted but it retired
with very prestigious positions in marines i'm not saying there's a connection there but it is
interesting to see that jonathan kind of got made an example of and left the marines in 98 admitted
to using controlled substances so he could get out of the marines but these other guys enjoyed
very long careers now the one that responded to me again i'm not going to burn his name just because
i you know unlike brad s in the flux liner he hasn't sent me death threats so i'm not going to burn
his name or post any sort of screenshots of messages but i was a little displeased with how
he treated jonathan i said in the video and i'll say it again i i don't think that whistleblower
testimony should be kind of boiled down to saying that the witness just has mental issues i've seen
it before i'm sure we'll see it again this reminds me to the team leader of michael herera nathan who
just said that michael was crazy because he enjoyed lifting weights and spending time alone
whilst deployed and i find arguments like that to be to not have much in him now i would always
find it weird when contacting this marine most of his story would go just towards the impossibility
of usmc having hawk batteries improved at that time and i agree with that jonathan agrees with that
but he always said no the story's false the story can't be true because we didn't have
hawk batteries the lance corporal story is false so that's kind of a mute point to me but i also
think it's strange he said that jonathan never deployed to puculpa or to laser strike when mac g
28 marines very well indeed according to our laser strike documentation did deploy so that's a bit
of a curious point now of course i try and be as objective as i can in my videos but in the end of
my videos i tend to give my opinion guys i i do believe the encounter of jonathan wagan and i
believe it for a couple reasons not just talking to jonathan but talking to kind of people not
connected with this i i do have conviction that this case is is real i think it's one of the most
extraordinary encounters of a downed ufo craft of all time that being said there's still mysteries
here with this case of course time slipping away so jonathan is remembering fewer and fewer details
i commend him for being able to say when he doesn't remember because this was 30 years ago
and as impactful as such an event would be there are going to be things he can't quite remember
like insignias on people's uniforms or tiny little details of the makeup of notches on a craft or the
digits on an arm hanging out these things i don't blame him for being able to recall and i commend
him for saying i'm speculating here or i don't recall when he doesn't know something but i i do
think this is a a case that did occur what happened to the craft we could only guess did it get taken
to the office of naval research because i suspect namru the naval because i suspect namru south had
some sort of implications here was their transfer of materials or liquid up to namru up in bright
paterson who knows now that being said my theory of of namru and my theory of iqitos and my theory
of the seventh this does still need work i think it's a strong thesis but of course we can't concrete
prove this the biggest take up here is of course namru being the location where wagon was held
versus him not receiving any medical treatment i do think this interesting that the doe personnel
probably nest you know i i think at this point it's almost a mute point to sit to try and argue
that it's not nest but he was stripped of his clothes clearly his clothes were taken off as soon
as he encountered the liquid when he was beaten by the other marines separated from adkins and
allen who knows what happened to them who knows what happened to the seven plus other marines
that were not in the vanguard that may have seen the craft that may have not made it down the ridge
wagon doesn't know and he was put into isolation threatened and so on so i think because he took
a swing at one of these men he was both made an example of and because he encountered the liquid
there was a contamination threat but he didn't receive medical procedures is this a substance
that the doe nest team and retrieval teams are familiar with and maybe it's just like a slightly
acidic goopy water with the consistency of syrup so they weren't really worried but they wanted to
get those clothes off and maybe but that's all just speculation so is namer but i do think that
kind of fits the bill for a marine that came into contact with a non-human fluid get him isolated but
again he said this location was underground perhaps namer has underground facilities perhaps this
was nearby and i do think it's interesting he was driven back to his base now i need to get in
contact with somebody else stationed at raider detachment five which i really have tried to see
if there were a mac g 28 marines there because this would really solve quite a bit of this
but i do think it's interesting with the mar forlant training team and the special forces there
and all of the history of special forces whether that be the first one 228th aviation regiment or
the seven special forces up there in northern peru in history now of course this retrieval
team could be a dedicated j-soc or former j-soc or so-called retrieval team that station in south
america maybe howard air force base and panama maybe somewhere else to react to these this would
fit in our time frame of retrieval too because i know i gave about nine hours it could be plus
or minus an hour even to that i have a lot of air here they could be stationed for south american
retrievals we just don't know i'm just trying to work with the best available evidence we have
and try and reconstruct the testimony so of course in my theory there's a lot of assumptions there
and i was the first to say that there's a lot of assumptions and if you have a competing theory
of how this played out please let me know i'd love to hear it because at the end of the day i'm
just trying to take some of the pieces of evidence and fit them into a theory and i do think it's
strong but it is open to interpretation and probably open to error so if you have something
better there or something you think is stronger let me know i'd love to talk more about this case
speaking of let me know what you guys think in the comments because i know so many people have
wanted to hear more from weigand and i'm thrilled this has some exclusive conversations with him
for the first time really in since 2000 because on the martin willis show he he didn't really shed
new light on any details um i almost got the sense he didn't quite want to be there so
i was really glad weigand and i could form a friendship and then kind of sit down on camera
together and he was really nervous about being on camera he doesn't like it he's a very different
person on camera versus not on camera it makes him very uncomfortable he's a very private guy
always has been he was very animated in 2000 and he just it took him a lot to get over the
fear of going on camera then took him a lot of fear going on camera in 2023 and now so with that
being said guys this is about the time i tell everybody of course i do have a patreon i don't
gatekeep any content there's no extra content on there i don't have time to make extra content
everything i make is open source and will always be freely available i will never gatekeep research
i will never gatekeep projects so if you want to support the channel just support what you think
the channel is worth what doesn't cost you money is to like and subscribe please do that
leave a comment that helps the channel out tremendously these investigations take quite
a while as as we found out here with about a week extra over my normal timetable of whenever
these videos so please support the channel however you can and i got some great stuff coming down
the pipeline some active stuff whenever there's hearings if those happen and whenever there's
large events you bet i will be there and you bet i will do a live covering them because i do not
just want to be an armchair investigator i want to get boots on the ground and do what i can to
help this subject and help push for some semblance of disclosure so again guys like and subscribe
if you want support the patreon leave a comment let me know what you think below and i will catch
everybody on the next episode thank you so very much for joining me goodbye everybody